Let's start with background origin, it's a bit comparable to box sizing, the values you can assign
are very similar though there is an extra value. Let's temporarily comment this out and let's also give
our image a border temporarily because this will help us understanding some of these additional properties.
Let's give it a border of let's say 5 pixels dashed, not solid, red.
If we save that and we reload,
we see that dashed border around our image.
Now what you can see already if you watch closely is that on the left and right, there is whitespace
beneath the border, on the top and bottom, we actually see the image.
The reason for this is that on the left and right,
the images fit into the container
but as you can see, the border doesn't seem to be part of the container width. On the top and bottom, the
border also isn't part of the container but on the top and bottom, we actually have excess space
on our image, so we crop it and that in turn seems to happen after the border,
now that's exactly what we can control with properties like background origin.
So if we set background origin to for example to border box and we save and we reload,
now you see the image also goes beneath
or below the border on the left and right because we now basically define what the container is for
our background property. By default,
it's not the border box and therefore we have that whitespace.
So what is the default then,
is it content box? Let's assign content box and reload
and now we see we even got some whitespace inside of our image because if we hover over our section here
which holds the image, we see that it's got some padding,
that green area on the left and right and top and bottom.
So content box
just as for box sizing means the content without border and padding.
So now the container which defines the width and height of our image is just a container without border
and any padding.
So the default actually is something we can't set on box sizing, the padding box,
this means the container including content and padding but not the border.
Now I will change this to border box here to ensure that my image also goes beneath the border,
even though we will remove that border later.
Now however one other thing we can notice is that it always, no matter what we defined, went beneath the border
for top and bottom because there, we were not talking about setting the height of the container but we
simply had the effect that we had excess image and we cropped that but the cropping wasn't affected
by background original, this instead is set with background clip, here we can also set it to border
box.
If we save that and we reload, we get the same behavior as before.
If we change it to padding box however and we now reload,
now you see the border is empty,
so no image beneath it at the top and bottom too.
So with background clip, we define where the image actually should be clipped if necessary
and now it's clipped after the padding
and of course we could also set this to content to clip it before the padding,
so now we got this whitespace around it.
Please note that this now also affects the width,
so the part where we don't clip it but where we actually size it. If we set this back to padding box,
we can also see this because to the left and right, the border now also has some whitespace beneath it.
So background clip actually overwrites background origin you could say and it's also important for defining
how it should be, well not just positioned and sized but also how it should be clipped
and I will also set background clip and origin back to border box to have a nicer view.
Now the last thing we saw in the slides is background attachment.
Now we won't actually see this in action here
and it's a property you rarely use.
With that you can define how scrolling would behave in a container that has a background image but that
is not fixed itself.
Now this container here isn't fixed but relative
but we can't scroll inside of it and on the packages page, we have a container where we can
scroll in it but the container itself is fixed to the page,
so we also won't see effect there. Background attachment would allow you to set fixed, scroll or local as a value
and this defines whether the image scrolls with the other content of the container,
for local, that would be the case, for scroll
however, the image would stay in place and the content would scroll over it, above it
and for fixed, the image would not would not be fixed to the container but to the viewport.
So you should have an effect where if you scroll the entire page with the container where the image
is inside, the image should stay in place.
This is what you can do with background attachment,
again a property you don't use that often in reality though.
So these are all the subproperties
we can set for background, as we learned, most of them only apply to background images.
Now with that, let's find out how we can bring all these subproperties into one
shorthand.